PROJECT_OVERVIEW.md, before:

# StreamVault - Project Overview

## 🎯 Project Status: **COMPLETE MVP**

StreamVault is now a fully functional full-stack video streaming platform with all core features implemented and ready for development/testing.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
streamvault/
├── client/                 # React Frontend Application
│   ├── public/            # Static assets
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/    # Reusable UI components
│   │   │   ├── Navbar.js     # Navigation header
│   │   │   └── VideoCard.js  # Video thumbnail cards
│   │   ├── pages/         # Page components
│   │   │   ├── Home.js       # Main video listing
│   │   │   ├── Login.js      # User login
│   │   │   ├── Register.js   # User registration
│   │   │   ├── VideoPlayer.js # Video playback (placeholder)
│   │   │   ├── Upload.js     # Video upload (placeholder)
│   │   │   ├── Channel.js    # Channel pages (placeholder)
│   │   │   └── Dashboard.js  # User dashboard (placeholder)
│   │   ├── utils/
│   │   │   └── AuthContext.js # Authentication context
│   │   ├── App.js         # Main application component
│   │   ├── index.js       # Entry point
│   │   └── index.css      # Global styles with Tailwind
│   └── package.json       # Frontend dependencies
├── server/                # Node.js Backend API
│   ├── models/           # Database schemas
│   │   ├── User.js          # User model with channel data
│   │   ├── Video.js         # Video model with metadata
│   │   ├── Comment.js       # Comment system
│   │   └── Donation.js      # Payment/donation tracking
│   ├── routes/           # API endpoints
│   │   ├── auth.js          # Authentication routes
│   │   ├── videos.js        # Video CRUD operations
│   │   ├── channels.js      # Channel management
│   │   ├── comments.js      # Comment system
│   │   └── admin.js         # Admin panel routes
│   ├── middleware/
│   │   └── auth.js          # JWT authentication middleware
│   ├── uploads/          # File storage directory
│   │   ├── videos/          # Uploaded video files
│   │   └── thumbnails/      # Video thumbnails
│   ├── server.js         # Express server setup
│   └── package.json      # Backend dependencies
├── .env                  # Environment configuration
├── .gitignore           # Git ignore rules
├── readme.md            # Complete project documentation
├── start-dev.bat        # Windows development script
└── start-dev.sh         # Unix development script
```

## ✅ Implemented Features

### 🔐 **Authentication System**
- User registration with validation
- Secure login with JWT tokens  
- Password hashing with bcrypt
- Protected routes and middleware
- User profile management
- Password change functionality

### 📹 **Video Management**
- Video upload with file validation
- Metadata management (title, description, tags)
- Video categorization
- Public/private video settings
- View count tracking
- Like/unlike functionality
- Video search and filtering
- Pagination for video listings

### 👥 **Channel System**
- User channels with subscriber counts
- Channel subscription/unsubscription
- Channel information pages
- Subscriber management

### 💬 **Comment System**
- Threaded comments with replies
- Comment likes/dislikes
- Comment editing and deletion
- Soft delete for moderation

### 🛡️ **Admin Dashboard**
- User management (view, role updates, deletion)
- Video moderation
- System statistics
- Admin-only protected routes

### 🎨 **Frontend UI**
- Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- Dark theme YouTube-like interface
- Navigation with user authentication states
- Video grid layouts
- Form validation and error handling

## 🛠️ **Technology Stack**

### Frontend
- **React 18.2.0** - Component-based UI
- **React Router 6.8.1** - Client-side routing
- **Axios 1.3.4** - HTTP client
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first styling
- **React Player 2.12.0** - Video playback

### Backend  
- **Node.js + Express 4.18.2** - Server framework
- **MongoDB + Mongoose 7.0.3** - Database and ODM
- **JWT (jsonwebtoken 9.0.0)** - Authentication
- **Bcrypt 2.4.3** - Password hashing
- **Multer** - File upload handling
- **Express Validator** - Input validation
- **Helmet** - Security headers
- **CORS** - Cross-origin resource sharing

### Development Tools
- **Nodemon** - Development server auto-restart
- **Morgan** - HTTP request logging
- **Jest & Supertest** - Testing framework (configured)

## 🚀 **Quick Start Guide**

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- MongoDB (local or Atlas)
- Git

### Installation
1. **Clone and navigate to project:**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd streamvault
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   # Backend dependencies
   cd server && npm install
   
   # Frontend dependencies  
   cd ../client && npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup:**
   - Copy `.env` file and update with your configurations:
     - MongoDB URI
     - JWT Secret
     - Cloudinary credentials (optional)
     - Stripe keys (for future payment integration)

4. **Start Development Servers:**
   
   **Windows:**
   ```cmd
   start-dev.bat
   ```
   
   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x start-dev.sh
   ./start-dev.sh
   ```

   **Manual start:**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1 - Backend
   cd server && npm run dev
   
   # Terminal 2 - Frontend  
   cd client && npm start
   ```

5. **Access the application:**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - Backend API: http://localhost:5000
   - API Health Check: http://localhost:5000/api/health

## 🧪 **Testing the Application**

### Basic Functionality Test
1. **Register a new user account**
2. **Login with credentials**
3. **Browse the video homepage**
4. **Upload a video** (backend ready, frontend placeholder)
5. **Test comment system** (API ready)
6. **Test subscription system** (API ready)

### API Endpoints Available
```
Authentication:
POST /api/auth/register - User registration
POST /api/auth/login - User login
GET /api/auth/profile - Get user profile
PUT /api/auth/profile - Update profile

Videos:
GET /api/videos - List all videos
GET /api/videos/:id - Get single video
POST /api/videos - Upload video
PUT /api/videos/:id - Update video
DELETE /api/videos/:id - Delete video
POST /api/videos/:id/like - Like/unlike video
POST /api/videos/:id/view - Record view

Channels:
GET /api/channels/:id - Get channel info
POST /api/channels/:id/subscribe - Subscribe/unsubscribe

Comments:
GET /api/videos/:videoId/comments - Get comments
POST /api/videos/:videoId/comments - Add comment
PUT /api/comments/:id - Edit comment
DELETE /api/comments/:id - Delete comment

Admin:
GET /api/admin/stats - Admin dashboard stats
GET /api/admin/users - Manage users
GET /api/admin/videos - Manage videos
```

## 🔄 **Next Steps for Enhancement**

### High Priority
1. **Video Player Implementation** - Integrate React Player fully
2. **File Upload UI** - Complete video upload interface  
3. **Thumbnail Generation** - Automatic video thumbnails
4. **Search Functionality** - Enhanced video search
5. **Video Processing** - Add video compression/conversion

### Medium Priority
6. **Payment Integration** - Stripe/PayPal for donations
7. **Real-time Features** - Live streaming capabilities
8. **Notifications** - User notification system
9. **Video Analytics** - Detailed video statistics
10. **Social Features** - Playlists, video sharing

### Future Enhancements
- Mobile app development
- CDN integration for video delivery
- Advanced video processing
- Live chat during streams
- Content moderation tools
- Multi-language support

## 🔒 **Security Features**

- JWT-based authentication
- Password hashing with bcrypt
- Input validation and sanitization
- Protected API routes
- File upload security
- CORS configuration
- Helmet security headers
- Admin role-based access control

## 📊 **Production Readiness**

The application includes:
- Environment variable configuration
- Error handling middleware
- Request logging
- Database connection handling
- File upload management
- Security best practices
- API documentation
- Development/production build scripts

## 🎯 **Current Status: MVP Complete**

StreamVault now has a complete foundation with:
- ✅ Full authentication system
- ✅ Video upload and management
- ✅ User channels and subscriptions  
- ✅ Comment system
- ✅ Admin panel
- ✅ Responsive UI
- ✅ RESTful API
- ✅ Database models
- ✅ Security implementation

The application is ready for further development, testing, and deployment!

Commit message:

stream vault to Mallard. SV logo to playful M one

PROJECT_OVERVIEW.md, after:

# Mallard - Project Overview

## 🎯 Project Status: **COMPLETE MVP**

Mallard is now a fully functional full-stack video streaming platform with all core features implemented and ready for development/testing.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
mallard/
├── client/                 # React Frontend Application
│   ├── public/            # Static assets
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/    # Reusable UI components
│   │   │   ├── Navbar.js     # Navigation header
│   │   │   └── VideoCard.js  # Video thumbnail cards
│   │   ├── pages/         # Page components
│   │   │   ├── Home.js       # Main video listing
│   │   │   ├── Login.js      # User login
│   │   │   ├── Register.js   # User registration
│   │   │   ├── VideoPlayer.js # Video playback (placeholder)
│   │   │   ├── Upload.js     # Video upload (placeholder)
│   │   │   ├── Channel.js    # Channel pages (placeholder)
│   │   │   └── Dashboard.js  # User dashboard (placeholder)
│   │   ├── utils/
│   │   │   └── AuthContext.js # Authentication context
│   │   ├── App.js         # Main application component
│   │   ├── index.js       # Entry point
│   │   └── index.css      # Global styles with Tailwind
│   └── package.json       # Frontend dependencies
├── server/                # Node.js Backend API
│   ├── models/           # Database schemas
│   │   ├── User.js          # User model with channel data
│   │   ├── Video.js         # Video model with metadata
│   │   ├── Comment.js       # Comment system
│   │   └── Donation.js      # Payment/donation tracking
│   ├── routes/           # API endpoints
│   │   ├── auth.js          # Authentication routes
│   │   ├── videos.js        # Video CRUD operations
│   │   ├── channels.js      # Channel management
│   │   ├── comments.js      # Comment system
│   │   └── admin.js         # Admin panel routes
│   ├── middleware/
│   │   └── auth.js          # JWT authentication middleware
│   ├── uploads/          # File storage directory
│   │   ├── videos/          # Uploaded video files
│   │   └── thumbnails/      # Video thumbnails
│   ├── server.js         # Express server setup
│   └── package.json      # Backend dependencies
├── .env                  # Environment configuration
├── .gitignore           # Git ignore rules
├── readme.md            # Complete project documentation
├── start-dev.bat        # Windows development script
└── start-dev.sh         # Unix development script
```

## ✅ Implemented Features

### 🔐 **Authentication System**
- User registration with validation
- Secure login with JWT tokens  
- Password hashing with bcrypt
- Protected routes and middleware
- User profile management
- Password change functionality

### 📹 **Video Management**
- Video upload with file validation
- Metadata management (title, description, tags)
- Video categorization
- Public/private video settings
- View count tracking
- Like/unlike functionality
- Video search and filtering
- Pagination for video listings

### 👥 **Channel System**
- User channels with subscriber counts
- Channel subscription/unsubscription
- Channel information pages
- Subscriber management

### 💬 **Comment System**
- Threaded comments with replies
- Comment likes/dislikes
- Comment editing and deletion
- Soft delete for moderation

### 🛡️ **Admin Dashboard**
- User management (view, role updates, deletion)
- Video moderation
- System statistics
- Admin-only protected routes

### 🎨 **Frontend UI**
- Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- Dark theme YouTube-like interface
- Navigation with user authentication states
- Video grid layouts
- Form validation and error handling

## 🛠️ **Technology Stack**

### Frontend
- **React 18.2.0** - Component-based UI
- **React Router 6.8.1** - Client-side routing
- **Axios 1.3.4** - HTTP client
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first styling
- **React Player 2.12.0** - Video playback

### Backend  
- **Node.js + Express 4.18.2** - Server framework
- **MongoDB + Mongoose 7.0.3** - Database and ODM
- **JWT (jsonwebtoken 9.0.0)** - Authentication
- **Bcrypt 2.4.3** - Password hashing
- **Multer** - File upload handling
- **Express Validator** - Input validation
- **Helmet** - Security headers
- **CORS** - Cross-origin resource sharing

### Development Tools
- **Nodemon** - Development server auto-restart
- **Morgan** - HTTP request logging
- **Jest & Supertest** - Testing framework (configured)

## 🚀 **Quick Start Guide**

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- MongoDB (local or Atlas)
- Git

### Installation
1. **Clone and navigate to project:**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd mallard
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   # Backend dependencies
   cd server && npm install
   
   # Frontend dependencies  
   cd ../client && npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup:**
   - Copy `.env` file and update with your configurations:
     - MongoDB URI
     - JWT Secret
     - Cloudinary credentials (optional)
     - Stripe keys (for future payment integration)

4. **Start Development Servers:**
   
   **Windows:**
   ```cmd
   start-dev.bat
   ```
   
   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x start-dev.sh
   ./start-dev.sh
   ```

   **Manual start:**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1 - Backend
   cd server && npm run dev
   
   # Terminal 2 - Frontend  
   cd client && npm start
   ```

5. **Access the application:**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - Backend API: http://localhost:5000
   - API Health Check: http://localhost:5000/api/health

## 🧪 **Testing the Application**

### Basic Functionality Test
1. **Register a new user account**
2. **Login with credentials**
3. **Browse the video homepage**
4. **Upload a video** (backend ready, frontend placeholder)
5. **Test comment system** (API ready)
6. **Test subscription system** (API ready)

### API Endpoints Available
```
Authentication:
POST /api/auth/register - User registration
POST /api/auth/login - User login
GET /api/auth/profile - Get user profile
PUT /api/auth/profile - Update profile

Videos:
GET /api/videos - List all videos
GET /api/videos/:id - Get single video
POST /api/videos - Upload video
PUT /api/videos/:id - Update video
DELETE /api/videos/:id - Delete video
POST /api/videos/:id/like - Like/unlike video
POST /api/videos/:id/view - Record view

Channels:
GET /api/channels/:id - Get channel info
POST /api/channels/:id/subscribe - Subscribe/unsubscribe

Comments:
GET /api/videos/:videoId/comments - Get comments
POST /api/videos/:videoId/comments - Add comment
PUT /api/comments/:id - Edit comment
DELETE /api/comments/:id - Delete comment

Admin:
GET /api/admin/stats - Admin dashboard stats
GET /api/admin/users - Manage users
GET /api/admin/videos - Manage videos
```

## 🔄 **Next Steps for Enhancement**

### High Priority
1. **Video Player Implementation** - Integrate React Player fully
2. **File Upload UI** - Complete video upload interface  
3. **Thumbnail Generation** - Automatic video thumbnails
4. **Search Functionality** - Enhanced video search
5. **Video Processing** - Add video compression/conversion

### Medium Priority
6. **Payment Integration** - Stripe/PayPal for donations
7. **Real-time Features** - Live streaming capabilities
8. **Notifications** - User notification system
9. **Video Analytics** - Detailed video statistics
10. **Social Features** - Playlists, video sharing

### Future Enhancements
- Mobile app development
- CDN integration for video delivery
- Advanced video processing
- Live chat during streams
- Content moderation tools
- Multi-language support

## 🔒 **Security Features**

- JWT-based authentication
- Password hashing with bcrypt
- Input validation and sanitization
- Protected API routes
- File upload security
- CORS configuration
- Helmet security headers
- Admin role-based access control

## 📊 **Production Readiness**

The application includes:
- Environment variable configuration
- Error handling middleware
- Request logging
- Database connection handling
- File upload management
- Security best practices
- API documentation
- Development/production build scripts

## 🎯 **Current Status: MVP Complete**

Mallard now has a complete foundation with:
- ✅ Full authentication system
- ✅ Video upload and management
- ✅ User channels and subscriptions  
- ✅ Comment system
- ✅ Admin panel
- ✅ Responsive UI
- ✅ RESTful API
- ✅ Database models
- ✅ Security implementation

The application is ready for further development, testing, and deployment!
